What is the most important thing a virus needs to carry out it's functions?
host
List the taxonomic levels from least to most specific (separated with a space)
kingdom phylum class family genus species
What the primitive counterpart of the Eukaryote?
prokaryote
If animals like Ligers are not species, what are they?
hybrids
... is a group of Archaea that lives in hot, acidic environments
theromoacidophile
What is the scientific name for viral replication?
lytic cycle
Fungi aid ecosystems through the role of ...
decomposers
What is the protein that makes up Fungi?
chitin
Organisms that DO NOT get energy from photosynthesis are ...
heterotrophic
Peptidoglycan is a protein found in ... cell walls
bacteria
What is the protein that protects and determines the type of virus?
capsid
"Coccus" in Streptococcus means the bacteria's shape is ...
round
This taxonomical kindom is also known as "the misfit shelf"
prostita
List the steps of the lytic cycle in order (separated by spaces)
attachment entry reproduction assembly lysis 
... is a tool used to identify organisms by their traits (branching out)
dichotomous key
Who came up with the theory of Natural Selection?
charles darwin
What are the closest living species to humans?
chimpanzee
Features that come out of Natural and Sexual selection give species an ... to survive
advantage
What are dog breeds examples of?
artificial selection
What were the first discovered bones of Australopithecus afarensis called?
lucy
The common name for the first, know, tool using hominid is ...
nutcracker man
The presence of chins in humans is thought to be a ...
species marker
Better ... gave offspring better change at survival
parenting
... is the idea that species adapt to their soroundings, when individuals without an advantageous trait die off
survival of the fittest
What the creation of a new species called?
speciation
Life on earth appearde about ... years ago
3,500,000,000
... structures are structures that are similar, and have similar functions in multiple species
homologous
A ... displays the genetic differences between species
phylogenetic tree
The ... shifted foreward when humans started walking upright
foreman magnum
... structures are structures that have similar functions, but are structuraly different
analogous
Adenine, Guanine, Thymine, Cytosine are examples of DNA ...
nitrogenous bases
The principle of ... describes that different genes separate independanly during production of sex cells
independent assortment
What is the process of production of male gametes?
spermatogenesis
Who is considered the Father of Genetics? (hint: peas)
gregor mendel
Oogenesis is the production of ... gametes
female
Dihybrid crosses compare the probability of ... traits
2
What gender is more likely to inherit a sex-linked trait?
male
Principle of Independent Assortment is not applied to traits that are found on the same ...
allele
DNA is copied to ... when it leaves the nucleus
rna
The mitochondira has its own DNA called ... and can be traced to a single female ancestor
mtdna
What is proven by the fact that all organisms have DNA?
evolution
Which stage of meiosis does independent assortment happends at?
metaphase 1
The difference between male and female individuals of a species is called ...
sexual dimorphism
Sexual Reproduction is important because it produces ... in a population
genetic variation
When DNA is copied to RNA, ... is replaced with ... (use space to separate)
thymine uracil
What muscle separates the thoracic and the abdominal cavity?
diaphragm
The ... is the strongest chamber of the heart
left ventricle
What is mechanically and partially chemically digested food called?
bolus
Bile is produced in the ... and stored in the ... (separate answers by a space)
liver gall bladder
What is the longest organ in the abdominal cavity?
small intestine
... is the condition that happens when stomach mucus lining wears away
stomach ulcers
How many liver lobes do normal humans and pigs have?
4
Proteins, Carbonhydrates, and Fats, are ... nutrients
macro
What is the scientific name for the throat?
pharynx
The appendix is an example of a ... structure
vestigial
The enzyme ... converts proteins into polypeptides
pepsin
What organ produces sodium bicarbonate, amylase, lipase, protinases, etc.
pancreas
Besides mechanical digestion, the mouth also does some chemical digestion with ...
amylase
Systolic pressure is created by the ... phase of the heart
contraction
... is a treatment used to treat a blocked coronary artery.
coronary bypass surgery
What is a plant with 2 embryonic leafs called?
dichot
What part of the vascular bundle sends nutrients to the roots?
phloem
What part of the vascular bundle sends water and minerals to the top?
xylem
What is the plant's reaction to heat called?
thermotropism
The scientific word for sprouting seed is ...
germination
The ... Mesophyll layer structurally supports the plant and allows for gas diffusion
spongy
Non-Vascular plants use their roots exclusively for ...
support
Cone-bearing plants are called ...
gymnosperm
Both monocots and dicots make up the classification group of ...
angiosperm
Non-Vascular plants do not have any ...
vascular bundles
What is the part of the leaf where photosynthesis occurs called?
palisade mesophyll layer
The ... is a waxy, protective layer that prevents water loss
cuticle
What controlls the size of the stomata?
guard cells
Monocot petals flower in multiples of ...
3
What kind of environment do non-vascular plants live in?
moist
What are flagella and cilia used for?
locomotion
A mutation where the codon reading-frame shifts is called a ... mutation
frameshift
The theory that organisms have to constantly evolve just to survive is called the ...
red queen theory
What are animals without spines called?
invertibrates
Too much water can cause plant roots to ...
rot